Rust survey results (draft) (#56)
rust-gamedev/rust-gamedev.github.io: content/posts/survey-01/index.md

* Prototyping seems not as easy in Rust due to "fighting the compiler"

###  Documentation (43)

* Not enough documentation to get past beginner stage

* Lacking examples for gamedev libs.

* Documentation is usually either high level or examples but rarely both. Very few real world examples to draw from.

### Lack of full-featured engines (35)

* Lack of a data-and-script based engine like Unreal Engine or Unity means even small projects end up feeling very bring-your-own-engine.

* Missing graphical editors, frictionless prototyping of games

### Rust learning curve / onboarding to a niche language (29)

* The language has a higher upfront cognitive load than any other mainstream language I know of, mostly due to the borrow checker. It's very hard to hack through stuff and get away with it, which makes it a particularly hard sell for game prototypes.

* I know that it is a less common language to use so as a company I will have to have my staff learn Rust before they can start.

* Rust could be tricky to hire for, and hiring someone who doesn't know Rust to work in Rust will come with a ramp-up period.

### IDE/RLS story (28)

> Tooling around IDE is limited compared to Visual Studio with C++ or C#.´

Reviewer: There's a bullet point missing here and on lines 112/114.

I also kinda wonder if there's a way to format these bullets to make it a little clearer that they're quotes, but it's probably fine as is.

Reviewer 2: I think marking it as quotes is actually a good point. The first time I read it, I wasn't sure whether they were a distilled, bullet-point summary of reflective quotes.

Reviewer: With the site's current styling, quotes would look like this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/784533/73682565-835c1c00-46b8-11ea-98ec-6f4a6c85e918.png)

If you do decide to go that route, please let me know if you're not happy with the fonts/italics/etc - I can submit a quick PR to change them before this post gets merged :)

# Hobbyist or developer?
![Respondents identifying as professional or hobbyist](hobbyist-or-professional.png)
Out of the 400 respondents, 3/4 identified as a _Hobbyist_. It should also be noted that a significant portion of the self-identified _Professionals_ are more accurately described as "aspiring professional" undertaking their first game development venture. That still amounts to a large amount of commercial interest in Rust game development all the same!

# Are you using Rust for gamedev?
![Respondents using Rust in game development](using-rust.png)
Among the Professionals only 1/4 said they are currently using Rust in games. That means the 200 respondents currently using Rust for gamedev are mostly hobbyists. No surprise there, as most professionals can't bear the risk of being an early adopter. Big shoutout to all the hobbyists who are pushing the status quo, and kudos to the handful of studios that are using Rust in production long before most of their industry peers have even caught the scent.

---

> _For the free-form answers that follow, a basic eyeballs&hands sentiment analysis was used to distill 400 replies into digestible form. The (#) number next to a heading indicate roughly the number of times that topic came up. Think of it as the **signal strength** of a given topic._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_For the free-form answers that follow, a basic eyeballs&hands sentiment analysis was used to distill 400 replies into digestible form. The (#) number next to a heading roughly indicates the number of times that topic came up. Think of it as the **signal strength** of a given topic._
```

- Collection of “Standard crates” with some form of WG support
- Push for stabilisation

### Faster iteration times (17)

- Hot code reloading
- Scripting
- Faster compile times
- More libraries like Processing

### Integration with existing toolchains (14)

- C/C++
- Xcode, Android studio, Visual studio, Blender
- Unity/Unreal/Godot

### Custom allocation story (10)

### Debugging support and IDE integration (5)

### Interoperability between libraries (5)

## Can you name some libraries you are thankful for or take special interest in?
Just for fun, we asked respondents to name libraries or projects they were thankful for. In the 6 months that have passed since this survey went out there's been quite a few newcomers on the rise that would probably show more prominently here if we asked again today. Rest assured there will be more surveys.
![Shoutouts to ecosystem projects](survey-thanks.png)

> _Thanks so much to the survey respondents and all the people out there working tirelessly make Rust a first-tier language and ecosystem for game development._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Thank you so much to the survey respondents and all the people out there working tirelessly to make Rust a first-tier language and ecosystem for game development._
```

Author: Has this been applied? I haven't used this GH feature before so I'm not quite sure what happened when I committed your first set of suggestions. These other suggestions are apparently "outdated" now.

Reviewer 2: The second suggestion seems not to have been applied.

Author: Ah, I guess I should’ve opted for “add suggestion to batch” instead. Could you please resubmit the missing suggestions?
